# Excel-analysis-on-Kickstarter-data
## Overview of Project
My example client, Louise, originally wanted to start a crowd-funding campaign for her new play, *Fever*. Now that her fundraising has come close to meeting its goal pretty quickly, she is interested in seeing the results of other fundraising campaigns for similar projects so she can gauge her campaign relative to others.
### Purpose
The purpose of this project is to show the outcomes of these other campaigns in regards to both the different campaigns' launch dates and fundraising goals in a visually understandable format so Louise can see how her campaign for *Fever* compares to the results of other campaigns.
## Analysis and Challenges
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
In order to obtain an accurate reflection of other campaigns' outcomes based on launch date data, I found it best to create a pivot table with just the theater campaigns as that is the category relating to Louise's play. I set this pivot table up with the months on the rows portion of the table with the outcomes (successful, failed, or canceled) on the columns portion of the table to show the number of campaigns under each individual outcome over the progression of months. To view this table, please see the "Outcomes Based on Launch Date" sheet in this file: [Kickstarter_Challenge](https://github.com/allysakarr/Excel-analysis-on-Kickstarter-data/blob/master/Kickstarter_Challenge.xlsx?raw=true).

I then made a line chart with markers to visualize the data to show Louise a monthly timeline (x-axis) and the trend of the number of campaigns (y-axis) throughout the months based on their outcomes. See this image below: [Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch](https://github.com/allysakarr/Excel-analysis-on-Kickstarter-data/blob/master/Resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png?raw=true, "Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch") 

According to this line chart, the peak of the line occurs around May with the values progressively going down after that month, meaning that the highest amount of successful campaigns occured in May. On the other hand, as the values begin to decrese, the number of successful campaigns reaches its lowest value, also noticeably lower than every other month, in December. It is also interesting to note that the higher amount of failed campaigns occurs in October, though it is still lower than the successful campaigns in October. 
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
In order to determine which of the plays actually met their fundraising goals, I needed to re-format the data to divide up the actual goal amounts to display them properly with a visualization. I broke up the goal values into ranges in a separate sheet. I then calculated the number of plays with a successful outcome using these ranges with the data in the Kickstarter data sheet, specifically the goal amounts, the outcomes, and the specific "play" subcategory. I applied the same formula for the failed and canceled campaigns. I summed these amounts and then used the number of a specific outcome divided by that sum to generate an overal percentage of plays with that specific outcome. I performed this action for all outcomes (successful, failed, and canceled). To see this work, please view the "Outcomes Based on Goals" sheet within this file: [Kickstarter_Challenge](https://github.com/allysakarr/Excel-analysis-on-Kickstarter-data/blob/master/Kickstarter_Challenge.xlsx?raw=true). With these percentage values, I made a line chart displaying the percentages on the y-axis with the goal ranges on the x-axis to visualize the percentages of campaigns with a certain fundraising goal range that were successful, failed, or canceled. See this image below: [Outcomes_vs_Goal](https://github.com/allysakarr/Excel-analysis-on-Kickstarter-data/blob/master/Resources/Outcomes_vs_Goal.png?raw=true "Outcomes_vs_Goal") 

According to the line chart, the percentage of successful campaigns was higher with the lowest fundraising goal range and the percentage of failed campaigns was lower with the lowest fundraising goal ranges. Conversely, the percentage of successful plays was lower with a higher fundraising goal range and the percentage of failed plays was higher with a higher fundraising goal range.
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
As I was creating the pivot table for the Outcomes Based on Launch data, I placed the "Data Created Conversion" table into the Axis (Categories) field, which then resulted in the years being listed in the rows portion of the table instead of months. In order to address this issue and make the data more pertinent for Louise to compare hers to, I deleted the "Quarters" and "Years 2" portions of the Axis field to reveal the launch months. I performed this action in order to give Louise an actual time of the year of when plays obtained certain outcomes. To address the outcomes portion of this pivot table, I placed the outcomes data in the Legend (Series) field, but the actual number of plays under the outcomes was not showing. I fixed this by placing the outcomes data also in the Values field in order to produce a count of the outcomes, providing an actual number value. 

As I was developing the data to convert into a chart form for the Outcomes Based on Goals sheet, it was necessary to make every one of referenced columns absolute references in order to make sure Excel would not change the cell reference. In order to make the data reflect accurately on the visualization, I needed to change the axis to reflect the ranges on the x-axis and a percentage on the y-axis. 
## Results
To wrap up this analysis for Louise, I have come to a few conclusions. According to the campaign data analyzed in the Outcomes Based on Launch Date, the best month to launch a play is in May as the number of successful campaigns for theater is higher in that month. Conversely, the worst month to launch a play would be in December, which is when the number of successful campaigns for theater is the lowest. So, I can conclude that the other campaigns that started in May had a higher success rate than those that started in December. From analyzing the data on the other campaign's Outcomes Based on Goals, I can conclude the campaigns with fundraising goals less than 1000 and from 1000 to 4999 were more successful versus the other campaigns with higher fundraising goal ranges. I can conclude from this data that campaigns with lower fundraising goals were more likely to be successfully funded like how Louise's campaign almost is.

Despite the data yielding conclusive results, I did observe some limitations. The data did include many years of campaign data, and I would argue that using more current dates would be a better reflection of the current campaign fundraising atmosphere. Also, though Louise did want all of the campaign data, narrowing down this data further to just the US would localize more pertinent and similar campaigns to Louise's play.

I did like using line charts to display this data, but I do see an opportunity to use other graphs to make the data more easily understandable. In the Outcomes Based on Launch Date chart, I find the number of plays to be a little harder to read on the y-axis, and potentially doing a bar chart could have represented these specific values better. But, since it is more of a time progression through the months, I would prefer the line chart for the x-axis values. In the Outcomes Based on Goals chart, the percentages and ranges are a bit more difficult to visualize in a line graph as the line graph seems more like a continuation of values versus individual values. I would have rather made a bar chart to reflect the individual range values and then showed the difference in the percentages that way.
